.\" DATE
.TH "kew" "1" "9/3/23" "Linux" "General Commands Manual"
.nh
.if n .ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBkew\fR
,
\fBkew\fR
\- Music For The Shell.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 4n
\fBkew\fR
[OPTIONS]
[\fIPARTIAL\ FILE\ OR\ DIRECTORY\ NAME\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBkew\fR
plays audio from your music folder when given a partial (or whole) file or directory name.
A playlist is created when finding more than one file.
It supports gapless playback, 24-bit/192khz audio and MPRIS.
.PP
Typical use:
.PP
\fBkew\fR
artist, album or song name
.PP
\fBkew\fR
returns results from the location of the first match, it doesn't return every result possible.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 9n
\fB\-h,\fR \fB\--help\fR
Displays help.
.TP 9n
\fB\-v,\fR \fB\--version\fR
Displays version info.
.TP 9n
\fBpath <path>\fR
Sets the path to the music library.
.TP 9n
\fB\--nocover\fR
Hides the cover.
.TP 9n
\fB\--noui\fR
Completely hides the UI.
.TP 9n
\fB\-q,\fR \fB\--quitonstop\fR
Exits after playing the whole playlist.
.TP 9n
\fB\-e,\fR \fB\--exact
Specifies you want an exact (but not case sensitive) match.
.TP 9n
shuffle
Shuffles the playlist before starting to play it.
.TP 9n
dir
Plays the directory not the song.
.TP 9n
song
Plays the song not the directory.
.TP 9n
\fBtheme <theme name>\fR
Sets a theme from ~/<configfolder>/kew/themes
.TP 9n
list
Searches for a (.m3u) playlist. These are normally not included in searches.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 9n
kew
Start
\fBkew\fR
in library view.
.TP 9n
kew all
Start
\fBkew\fR
with all songs loaded into a playlist.
.TP 9n
kew albums
Start
\fBkew\fR
with all albums randomly added one after the other in the playlist.
.TP 9n
kew moonlight son
Play moonlight sonata.
.TP 9n
kew moon
.br
Play moonlight sonata.
.TP 9n
kew nirv
.br
Play all music under Nirvana folder shuffled.
.TP 9n
kew neverm
Play Nevermind album in alphabetical order.
.TP 9n
kew shuffle neverm
Play Nevermind album shuffled.
.TP 9n
kew list mix
Play the mix.m3u playlist.
.TP 9n
kew theme midnight
Sets the 'midnight.theme' theme.
.TP 9n
kew <words A>:<words B>:<words C>
Play the first match (whole directory or file) found under A, B, and C, shuffled. Searches are separated by a colon ':' character.
.TP 9n
kew .
Play the "kew favorites.m3u" playlist.
.SH "KEY BINDINGS"
.TP 9n
+, -
Adjusts volume.
.TP 9n
Left-right arrows/h,l
Change song.
.TP 9n
Space
Play, Pause.
.TP 9n
Shift+s
Stop.
.TP 9n
F2 or Shift+z
Show playlist view.
.TP 9n
F3 or Shift+x
Show library view.
.TP 9n
F4 or Shift+c
Show track view.
.TP 9n
F5 or Shift+v
Show search view.
.TP 9n
F6 or Shift+n
Show help view.
.TP 9n
u
Update the library.
.TP 9n
i
Toggle colors derived from album cover or from color theme.
.TP 9n
v
Toggle spectrum visualizer.
.TP 9n
n
Toggle desktop notifications on or off.
.TP 9n
b
Switch between ascii and image album cover.
.TP 9n
r
Cycles repeat mode (repeat, repeat list or off).
.TP 9n
t
Cycles themes.
.TP 9n
s
Shuffles the playlist.
.TP 9n
a
Seek Backward.
.TP 9n
d
Seek Forward.
.TP 9n
m
Show lyrics in track view.
.TP 9n
x
Save currently loaded playlist to a .m3u file in the music folder.
.TP 9n
"."
Add currently playing song to "kew favorites.m3u" playlist. Play this list with "kew .".
.TP 9n
Tab
Switch to next view.
.TP 9n
Shift+Tab
Switch to previous view.
.TP 9n
Backspace
Clear the playlist.
.TP 9n
Delete
Remove a single playlist entry.
.TP 9n
f,g
Move a song up or down the playlist.
.TP 9n
number + G or Enter
Go to specific song number in the playlist.
.TP 9n
Esc or q
Quit
\fBkew\fR.
.SH "FILES"
.TP 10n
\fI~/<configfolder>/kew/kewrc\fR
Config file.
.TP 10n
\fI~/<statefolder>/kew/kewstaterc\fR
Dynamic Preferences file, ~/.local/state/kewstaterc on Linux.
.TP 10n
\fI~/<configfolder>/kew/kewlibrary\fR
Music library directory tree cache.
.TP 10n
\fI/<musicfolder>/kew favorites.m3u\fR
The
\fBkew\fR
playlist. Add to it by pressing '.' during playback of any song. This playlist is saved before q exits.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \[u00A9] 2023 Ravachol. License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP 10n
Project home pages:
.TP 10n
\fI<https://codeberg.org/ravachol/kew>\fR
.TP 10n
\fI<https://github.com/ravachol/kew>\fR
.TP 10n
Donate here:
.TP 10n
\fI<https://ko-fi.com/ravachol>\fR
.TP 10n
\fI<https://github.com/sponsors/ravachol>\fR



